docs/content/docs/basics/idl.mdx, before:

---
title: Program IDL File
description:
  Learn about the Interface Description Language (IDL) file in Anchor, its
  purpose, benefits, and how it simplifies program-client interactions
---

An Interface Description Language (IDL) file for an Anchor program provides a
standardized JSON file describing the program's instructions and accounts. This
file simplifies the process of integrating your on-chain program with client
applications.

Key Benefits of the IDL:

- Standardization: Provides a consistent format for describing the program's
  instructions and accounts
- Client Generation: Used to generate client code to interact with the program

<Callout type="info">
The `anchor build` command generates an IDL file located at
`/target/idl/<program-name>.json`.
</Callout>

The code snippets in the sections below highlight how the program, IDL, and
client relate to each other.

## Program Instructions

The `instructions` array in the IDL corresponds directly to the instructions
defined in your program. It specifies the required accounts and parameters for
each instruction.

<Tabs items={['Program', 'IDL', 'Client']}>
<Tab value="Program">

The program below includes an `initialize` instruction, specifying the accounts
and parameters it requires.

```rust title="lib.rs"
use anchor_lang::prelude::*;

declare_id!("BYFW1vhC1ohxwRbYoLbAWs86STa25i9sD5uEusVjTYNd");

#[program]
mod hello_anchor {
    use super::*;
    // [!code word:initialize]
    // [!code word:Initialize]
    // [!code highlight:5]
    pub fn initialize(ctx: Context<Initialize>, data: u64) -> Result<()> {
        ctx.accounts.new_account.data = data;
        msg!("Changed data to: {}!", data);
        Ok(())
    }
}

 // [!code highlight:8]
#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct Initialize<'info> {
    #[account(init, payer = signer, space = 8 + 8)]
    pub new_account: Account<'info, NewAccount>,
    #[account(mut)]
    pub signer: Signer<'info>,
    pub system_program: Program<'info, System>,
}

#[account]
pub struct NewAccount {
    data: u64,
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab value="IDL">

The generated IDL file includes the instruction in a standardized JSON format,
including its name, discriminator, accounts, and arguments.

```json title="JSON"
{
  "address": "BYFW1vhC1ohxwRbYoLbAWs86STa25i9sD5uEusVjTYNd",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "hello_anchor",
    "version": "0.1.0",
    "spec": "0.1.0",
    "description": "Created with Anchor"
  },
  "instructions": [
    {
      // [!code word:initialize]
      // [!code highlight]
      "name": "initialize",
      // [!code word:discriminator:1]
      // [!code highlight]
      "discriminator": [175, 175, 109, 31, 13, 152, 155, 237],
      // [!code word:accounts:1]
      "accounts": [
        // [!code highlight:14]
        {
          "name": "new_account",
          "writable": true,
          "signer": true
        },
        {
          "name": "signer",
          "writable": true,
          "signer": true
        },
        {
          "name": "system_program",
          "address": "11111111111111111111111111111111"
        }
      ],
      // [!code word:args:1]
      "args": [
        // [!code highlight:4]
        {
          "name": "data",
          "type": "u64"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "accounts": [
    {
      "name": "NewAccount",
      "discriminator": [176, 95, 4, 118, 91, 177, 125, 232]
    }
  ],
  "types": [
    {
      "name": "NewAccount",
      "type": {
        "kind": "struct",
        "fields": [
          {
            "name": "data",
            "type": "u64"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab value="Client">

The IDL file is then used to generate a client for interacting with the program,
simplifying the process of invoking the program instruction.

```ts title="test.ts"
import * as anchor from "@coral-xyz/anchor";
import { Program, BN } from "@coral-xyz/anchor";
import { HelloAnchor } from "../target/types/hello_anchor";
import { Keypair } from "@solana/web3.js";
import assert from "assert";

describe("hello_anchor", () => {
  const provider = anchor.AnchorProvider.env();
  anchor.setProvider(provider);
  const wallet = provider.wallet as anchor.Wallet;
  const program = anchor.workspace.HelloAnchor as Program<HelloAnchor>;

  it("initialize", async () => {
    // Generate keypair for the new account
    const newAccountKp = new Keypair();

    // Send transaction
    const data = new BN(42);
    // [!code word:initialize]
    // [!code highlight:8]
    const transactionSignature = await program.methods
      .initialize(data)
      .accounts({
        newAccount: newAccountKp.publicKey,
        signer: wallet.publicKey,
      })
      .signers([newAccountKp])
      .rpc();

    // Fetch the created account
    const newAccount = await program.account.newAccount.fetch(
      newAccountKp.publicKey,
    );

    console.log("Transaction signature: ", transactionSignature);
    console.log("On-chain data is:", newAccount.data.toString());
    assert(data.eq(newAccount.data));
  });
});
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Program Accounts

The `accounts` array in the IDL corresponds to the structs in a program
annotated with the `#[account]` attribute. These structs define the data stored
on accounts created by the program.

<Tabs items={['Program', 'IDL', 'Client']}>
<Tab value="Program">

The program below defines a `NewAccount` struct with a single `data` field of
type `u64`.

```rust title="lib.rs"
use anchor_lang::prelude::*;

declare_id!("BYFW1vhC1ohxwRbYoLbAWs86STa25i9sD5uEusVjTYNd");

#[program]
mod hello_anchor {
    use super::*;
    pub fn initialize(ctx: Context<Initialize>, data: u64) -> Result<()> {
        ctx.accounts.new_account.data = data;
        msg!("Changed data to: {}!", data);
        Ok(())
    }
}

#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct Initialize<'info> {
    #[account(init, payer = signer, space = 8 + 8)]
    pub new_account: Account<'info, NewAccount>,
    #[account(mut)]
    pub signer: Signer<'info>,
    pub system_program: Program<'info, System>,
}

// [!code word:NewAccount]
// [!code highlight:4]
#[account]
pub struct NewAccount {
    data: u64,
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab value="IDL">

The generated IDL file includes the account in a standardized JSON format,
including its name, discriminator, and fields.

```json title="JSON"
{
  "address": "BYFW1vhC1ohxwRbYoLbAWs86STa25i9sD5uEusVjTYNd",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "hello_anchor",
    "version": "0.1.0",
    "spec": "0.1.0",
    "description": "Created with Anchor"
  },
  "instructions": [
    {
      "name": "initialize",
      "discriminator": [175, 175, 109, 31, 13, 152, 155, 237],
      "accounts": [
        {
          "name": "new_account",
          "writable": true,
          "signer": true
        },
        {
          "name": "signer",
          "writable": true,
          "signer": true
        },
        {
          "name": "system_program",
          "address": "11111111111111111111111111111111"
        }
      ],
      "args": [
        {
          "name": "data",
          "type": "u64"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "accounts": [
    {
      // [!code word:discriminator]
      // [!code word:NewAccount]
      // [!code highlight:2]
      "name": "NewAccount",
      "discriminator": [176, 95, 4, 118, 91, 177, 125, 232]
    }
  ],
  "types": [
    // [!code highlight:12]
    {
      "name": "NewAccount",
      "type": {
        "kind": "struct",
        "fields": [
          {
            "name": "data",
            "type": "u64"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab value="Client">

The IDL file is then used to generate a client for interacting with the program,
simplifying the process of fetching and deserializing account data.

```ts title="test.ts"
import * as anchor from "@coral-xyz/anchor";
import { Program, BN } from "@coral-xyz/anchor";
import { HelloAnchor } from "../target/types/hello_anchor";
import { Keypair } from "@solana/web3.js";
import assert from "assert";

describe("hello_anchor", () => {
  const provider = anchor.AnchorProvider.env();
  anchor.setProvider(provider);
  const wallet = provider.wallet as anchor.Wallet;
  const program = anchor.workspace.HelloAnchor as Program<HelloAnchor>;

  it("initialize", async () => {
    // Generate keypair for the new account
    const newAccountKp = new Keypair();

    // Send transaction
    const data = new BN(42);
    const transactionSignature = await program.methods
      .initialize(data)
      .accounts({
        newAccount: newAccountKp.publicKey,
        signer: wallet.publicKey,
      })
      .signers([newAccountKp])
      .rpc();

    // Fetch the created account
    // [!code word:.newAccount.:1]
    // [!code highlight:3]
    const newAccount = await program.account.newAccount.fetch(
      newAccountKp.publicKey,
    );

    console.log("Transaction signature: ", transactionSignature);
    console.log("On-chain data is:", newAccount.data.toString());
    assert(data.eq(newAccount.data));
  });
});
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Discriminators

Anchor assigns a unique 8 byte discriminator to each instruction and account
type in a program. These discriminators serve as identifiers to distinguish
between different instructions or account types.

The discriminator is generated using the first 8 bytes of the Sha256 hash of a
prefix combined with the instruction or account name. As of Anchor v0.30, these
discriminators are included in the IDL file.

<Callout type="info">
  Note that when working with Anchor, you typically won't need to interact
  directly with these discriminators. This section is primarily to provide
  context on how the discriminator is generated and used.
</Callout>

<Tabs items={['Instructions', 'Accounts']}>
<Tab value="Instructions">

The instruction discriminator is used by the program to determine which specific
instruction to execute when called.

When an Anchor program instruction is invoked, the discriminator is included as
the first 8 bytes of the instruction data. This is done automatically by the
Anchor client.

```json title="IDL"
  "instructions": [
    {
      "name": "initialize",
      // [!code word:discriminator]
      // [!code highlight]
      "discriminator": [175, 175, 109, 31, 13, 152, 155, 237],
       ...
    }
  ]
```

The discriminator for an instruction is the first 8 bytes of the Sha256 hash of
the prefix `global` plus the instruction name.

For example:

```
sha256("global:initialize")
```

Hexadecimal output:

```
af af 6d 1f 0d 98 9b ed d4 6a 95 07 32 81 ad c2 1b b5 e0 e1 d7 73 b2 fb bd 7a b5 04 cd d4 aa 30
```

The first 8 bytes are used as the discriminator for the instruction.

```
af = 175
af = 175
6d = 109
1f = 31
0d = 13
98 = 152
9b = 155
ed = 237
```

You can find the implementation of the discriminator generation in the Anchor
codebase
[here](https://github.com/coral-xyz/anchor/blob/0e5285aecdf410fa0779b7cd09a47f235882c156/lang/syn/src/codegen/program/common.rs#L5-L19), 
for the [`gen_discriminator` method here](https://github.com/coral-xyz/anchor/blob/0e5285aecdf410fa0779b7cd09a47f235882c156/lang/syn/src/codegen/program/common.rs#L21-L24),
which is used
[here](https://github.com/coral-xyz/anchor/blob/0e5285aecdf410fa0779b7cd09a47f235882c156/lang/syn/src/codegen/program/instruction.rs#L33).

</Tab>
<Tab value="Accounts">

The account discriminator is used to identify the specific account type when
deserializing on-chain data and is set when the account is created.

```json title="IDL"
  "accounts": [
    {
      "name": "NewAccount",
      // [!code word:discriminator]
      // [!code highlight]
      "discriminator": [176, 95, 4, 118, 91, 177, 125, 232]
    }
  ]
```

The discriminator for an account is the first 8 bytes of the Sha256 hash of the
prefix `account` plus the account name.

For example:

```
sha256("account:NewAccount")
```

Hexadecimal output:

```
b0 5f 04 76 5b b1 7d e8 a1 93 57 2a d3 5e b1 ae e5 f0 69 e2 09 7e 5c d2 64 56 55 2a cb 4a e9 57
```

The first 8 bytes are used as the discriminator for the account.

```
b0 = 176
5f = 95
04 = 4
76 = 118
5b = 91
b1 = 177
7d = 125
e8 = 232
```

You can find the implementation of the discriminator generation in the Anchor
codebase
[here](https://github.com/coral-xyz/anchor/blob/0e5285aecdf410fa0779b7cd09a47f235882c156/lang/attribute/account/src/lib.rs#L101-L117).

<Callout type="info">
  Note that different programs using identical account names will generate the
  same discriminator. When deserializing account data, Anchor programs will also
  check an account is owned by the expected program for a specified account
  type.
</Callout>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: update the docs to reflect new program metadata idl integration

docs/content/docs/basics/idl.mdx, after:

---
title: Program IDL File
description:
  Learn about the Interface Description Language (IDL) file in Anchor, its
  purpose, benefits, and how it simplifies program-client interactions
---

An Interface Description Language (IDL) file for an Anchor program provides a
standardized JSON file describing the program's instructions and accounts. This
file simplifies the process of integrating your on-chain program with client
applications.

Key Benefits of the IDL:

- Standardization: Provides a consistent format for describing the program's
  instructions and accounts
- Client Generation: Used to generate client code to interact with the program
- On-chain Storage: IDLs can be stored on-chain using
  [Program Metadata](https://github.com/solana-program/program-metadata),
  allowing clients to fetch and use the IDL directly from the blockchain

<Callout type="info">
The `anchor build` command generates an IDL file located at
`/target/idl/<program-name>.json`.
</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
On-chain IDL storage uses the Program Metadata system. This reduces program
binary sizes and provides a standardized approach to on-chain metadata. Use
`anchor idl init` to upload your IDL to the blockchain.
</Callout>

The code snippets in the sections below highlight how the program, IDL, and
client relate to each other.

## Program Instructions

The `instructions` array in the IDL corresponds directly to the instructions
defined in your program. It specifies the required accounts and parameters for
each instruction.

<Tabs items={['Program', 'IDL', 'Client']}>
<Tab value="Program">

The program below includes an `initialize` instruction, specifying the accounts
and parameters it requires.

```rust title="lib.rs"
use anchor_lang::prelude::*;

declare_id!("BYFW1vhC1ohxwRbYoLbAWs86STa25i9sD5uEusVjTYNd");

#[program]
mod hello_anchor {
    use super::*;
    // [!code word:initialize]
    // [!code word:Initialize]
    // [!code highlight:5]
    pub fn initialize(ctx: Context<Initialize>, data: u64) -> Result<()> {
        ctx.accounts.new_account.data = data;
        msg!("Changed data to: {}!", data);
        Ok(())
    }
}

 // [!code highlight:8]
#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct Initialize<'info> {
    #[account(init, payer = signer, space = 8 + 8)]
    pub new_account: Account<'info, NewAccount>,
    #[account(mut)]
    pub signer: Signer<'info>,
    pub system_program: Program<'info, System>,
}

#[account]
pub struct NewAccount {
    data: u64,
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab value="IDL">

The generated IDL file includes the instruction in a standardized JSON format,
including its name, discriminator, accounts, and arguments.

```json title="JSON"
{
  "address": "BYFW1vhC1ohxwRbYoLbAWs86STa25i9sD5uEusVjTYNd",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "hello_anchor",
    "version": "0.1.0",
    "spec": "0.1.0",
    "description": "Created with Anchor"
  },
  "instructions": [
    {
      // [!code word:initialize]
      // [!code highlight]
      "name": "initialize",
      // [!code word:discriminator:1]
      // [!code highlight]
      "discriminator": [175, 175, 109, 31, 13, 152, 155, 237],
      // [!code word:accounts:1]
      "accounts": [
        // [!code highlight:14]
        {
          "name": "new_account",
          "writable": true,
          "signer": true
        },
        {
          "name": "signer",
          "writable": true,
          "signer": true
        },
        {
          "name": "system_program",
          "address": "11111111111111111111111111111111"
        }
      ],
      // [!code word:args:1]
      "args": [
        // [!code highlight:4]
        {
          "name": "data",
          "type": "u64"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "accounts": [
    {
      "name": "NewAccount",
      "discriminator": [176, 95, 4, 118, 91, 177, 125, 232]
    }
  ],
  "types": [
    {
      "name": "NewAccount",
      "type": {
        "kind": "struct",
        "fields": [
          {
            "name": "data",
            "type": "u64"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab value="Client">

The IDL file is then used to generate a client for interacting with the program,
simplifying the process of invoking the program instruction.

```ts title="test.ts"
import * as anchor from "@coral-xyz/anchor";
import { Program, BN } from "@coral-xyz/anchor";
import { HelloAnchor } from "../target/types/hello_anchor";
import { Keypair } from "@solana/web3.js";
import assert from "assert";

describe("hello_anchor", () => {
  const provider = anchor.AnchorProvider.env();
  anchor.setProvider(provider);
  const wallet = provider.wallet as anchor.Wallet;
  const program = anchor.workspace.HelloAnchor as Program<HelloAnchor>;

  it("initialize", async () => {
    // Generate keypair for the new account
    const newAccountKp = new Keypair();

    // Send transaction
    const data = new BN(42);
    // [!code word:initialize]
    // [!code highlight:8]
    const transactionSignature = await program.methods
      .initialize(data)
      .accounts({
        newAccount: newAccountKp.publicKey,
        signer: wallet.publicKey,
      })
      .signers([newAccountKp])
      .rpc();

    // Fetch the created account
    const newAccount = await program.account.newAccount.fetch(
      newAccountKp.publicKey,
    );

    console.log("Transaction signature: ", transactionSignature);
    console.log("On-chain data is:", newAccount.data.toString());
    assert(data.eq(newAccount.data));
  });
});
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Program Accounts

The `accounts` array in the IDL corresponds to the structs in a program
annotated with the `#[account]` attribute. These structs define the data stored
on accounts created by the program.

<Tabs items={['Program', 'IDL', 'Client']}>
<Tab value="Program">

The program below defines a `NewAccount` struct with a single `data` field of
type `u64`.

```rust title="lib.rs"
use anchor_lang::prelude::*;

declare_id!("BYFW1vhC1ohxwRbYoLbAWs86STa25i9sD5uEusVjTYNd");

#[program]
mod hello_anchor {
    use super::*;
    pub fn initialize(ctx: Context<Initialize>, data: u64) -> Result<()> {
        ctx.accounts.new_account.data = data;
        msg!("Changed data to: {}!", data);
        Ok(())
    }
}

#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct Initialize<'info> {
    #[account(init, payer = signer, space = 8 + 8)]
    pub new_account: Account<'info, NewAccount>,
    #[account(mut)]
    pub signer: Signer<'info>,
    pub system_program: Program<'info, System>,
}

// [!code word:NewAccount]
// [!code highlight:4]
#[account]
pub struct NewAccount {
    data: u64,
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab value="IDL">

The generated IDL file includes the account in a standardized JSON format,
including its name, discriminator, and fields.

```json title="JSON"
{
  "address": "BYFW1vhC1ohxwRbYoLbAWs86STa25i9sD5uEusVjTYNd",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "hello_anchor",
    "version": "0.1.0",
    "spec": "0.1.0",
    "description": "Created with Anchor"
  },
  "instructions": [
    {
      "name": "initialize",
      "discriminator": [175, 175, 109, 31, 13, 152, 155, 237],
      "accounts": [
        {
          "name": "new_account",
          "writable": true,
          "signer": true
        },
        {
          "name": "signer",
          "writable": true,
          "signer": true
        },
        {
          "name": "system_program",
          "address": "11111111111111111111111111111111"
        }
      ],
      "args": [
        {
          "name": "data",
          "type": "u64"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "accounts": [
    {
      // [!code word:discriminator]
      // [!code word:NewAccount]
      // [!code highlight:2]
      "name": "NewAccount",
      "discriminator": [176, 95, 4, 118, 91, 177, 125, 232]
    }
  ],
  "types": [
    // [!code highlight:12]
    {
      "name": "NewAccount",
      "type": {
        "kind": "struct",
        "fields": [
          {
            "name": "data",
            "type": "u64"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab value="Client">

The IDL file is then used to generate a client for interacting with the program,
simplifying the process of fetching and deserializing account data.

```ts title="test.ts"
import * as anchor from "@coral-xyz/anchor";
import { Program, BN } from "@coral-xyz/anchor";
import { HelloAnchor } from "../target/types/hello_anchor";
import { Keypair } from "@solana/web3.js";
import assert from "assert";

describe("hello_anchor", () => {
  const provider = anchor.AnchorProvider.env();
  anchor.setProvider(provider);
  const wallet = provider.wallet as anchor.Wallet;
  const program = anchor.workspace.HelloAnchor as Program<HelloAnchor>;

  it("initialize", async () => {
    // Generate keypair for the new account
    const newAccountKp = new Keypair();

    // Send transaction
    const data = new BN(42);
    const transactionSignature = await program.methods
      .initialize(data)
      .accounts({
        newAccount: newAccountKp.publicKey,
        signer: wallet.publicKey,
      })
      .signers([newAccountKp])
      .rpc();

    // Fetch the created account
    // [!code word:.newAccount.:1]
    // [!code highlight:3]
    const newAccount = await program.account.newAccount.fetch(
      newAccountKp.publicKey,
    );

    console.log("Transaction signature: ", transactionSignature);
    console.log("On-chain data is:", newAccount.data.toString());
    assert(data.eq(newAccount.data));
  });
});
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Discriminators

Anchor assigns a unique 8 byte discriminator to each instruction and account
type in a program. These discriminators serve as identifiers to distinguish
between different instructions or account types.

The discriminator is generated using the first 8 bytes of the Sha256 hash of a
prefix combined with the instruction or account name. As of Anchor v0.30, these
discriminators are included in the IDL file.

<Callout type="info">
  Note that when working with Anchor, you typically won't need to interact
  directly with these discriminators. This section is primarily to provide
  context on how the discriminator is generated and used.
</Callout>

<Tabs items={['Instructions', 'Accounts']}>
<Tab value="Instructions">

The instruction discriminator is used by the program to determine which specific
instruction to execute when called.

When an Anchor program instruction is invoked, the discriminator is included as
the first 8 bytes of the instruction data. This is done automatically by the
Anchor client.

```json title="IDL"
  "instructions": [
    {
      "name": "initialize",
      // [!code word:discriminator]
      // [!code highlight]
      "discriminator": [175, 175, 109, 31, 13, 152, 155, 237],
       ...
    }
  ]
```

The discriminator for an instruction is the first 8 bytes of the Sha256 hash of
the prefix `global` plus the instruction name.

For example:

```
sha256("global:initialize")
```

Hexadecimal output:

```
af af 6d 1f 0d 98 9b ed d4 6a 95 07 32 81 ad c2 1b b5 e0 e1 d7 73 b2 fb bd 7a b5 04 cd d4 aa 30
```

The first 8 bytes are used as the discriminator for the instruction.

```
af = 175
af = 175
6d = 109
1f = 31
0d = 13
98 = 152
9b = 155
ed = 237
```

You can find the implementation of the discriminator generation in the Anchor
codebase
[here](https://github.com/coral-xyz/anchor/blob/0e5285aecdf410fa0779b7cd09a47f235882c156/lang/syn/src/codegen/program/common.rs#L5-L19), 
for the [`gen_discriminator` method here](https://github.com/coral-xyz/anchor/blob/0e5285aecdf410fa0779b7cd09a47f235882c156/lang/syn/src/codegen/program/common.rs#L21-L24),
which is used
[here](https://github.com/coral-xyz/anchor/blob/0e5285aecdf410fa0779b7cd09a47f235882c156/lang/syn/src/codegen/program/instruction.rs#L33).

</Tab>
<Tab value="Accounts">

The account discriminator is used to identify the specific account type when
deserializing on-chain data and is set when the account is created.

```json title="IDL"
  "accounts": [
    {
      "name": "NewAccount",
      // [!code word:discriminator]
      // [!code highlight]
      "discriminator": [176, 95, 4, 118, 91, 177, 125, 232]
    }
  ]
```

The discriminator for an account is the first 8 bytes of the Sha256 hash of the
prefix `account` plus the account name.

For example:

```
sha256("account:NewAccount")
```

Hexadecimal output:

```
b0 5f 04 76 5b b1 7d e8 a1 93 57 2a d3 5e b1 ae e5 f0 69 e2 09 7e 5c d2 64 56 55 2a cb 4a e9 57
```

The first 8 bytes are used as the discriminator for the account.

```
b0 = 176
5f = 95
04 = 4
76 = 118
5b = 91
b1 = 177
7d = 125
e8 = 232
```

You can find the implementation of the discriminator generation in the Anchor
codebase
[here](https://github.com/coral-xyz/anchor/blob/0e5285aecdf410fa0779b7cd09a47f235882c156/lang/attribute/account/src/lib.rs#L101-L117).

<Callout type="info">
  Note that different programs using identical account names will generate the
  same discriminator. When deserializing account data, Anchor programs will also
  check an account is owned by the expected program for a specified account
  type.
</Callout>

</Tab>
</Tabs>
